Create Collaboration.md (#67)
BitcoinDesign/Meta: Collaboration.md

Here are six types of design needs.

## #1 Resources & consultation

An existing project is looking for resources and expertise to improve their product (and potentially design process).

Ways the project can choose to interact with the community:

1. Review the guide to find a direction or solution
1. Engage in Slack conversations to share ideas and get feedback
1. Participate in a design review session

Our role is to be a helpful partner in providing resources and feedback.

## #2 Solve a specific problem

An existing project has identified a problem they would like support with and is looking to the community for help resolving it.

In addition to the options in #1, the team can also create a project brief to start a deeper collaboration. The brief should include the following:

1. Introduce the team, project and design process
1. Explain the issue to work on
1. Outline ideas for collaboration
1. Identify next steps with members of the community

We can share the brief with the community to find contributors.

> Solving single problems usually means to work within the current project framework. Bigger discussions around design processes and other improvements can be had, but the main goal is to help resolve the problem that was brought up by the project team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Solving single problems usually means to work within the current project framework. Bigger discussions around design processes and other improvements can be had, but the scope of work would be to resolve the specific problem that was brought up by the project team.
```

## #3 Redesign

An existing project is maturing and wants to improve the overall design, which may also means finding a designer and adopting design processes.

The term redesign is often used too quickly. Many times, it is better to systematically improve the existing design than start from scratch. This should be carefully considered.

Steps we can take:

1. Identify goals and vision
1. Examine the current state of the project
1. Compare vision to current state
1. Break down work-to-be-done into manageable parts
	- Example:

> 		1. Refine brand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		1. Refine brand
		1. User Interface audit
```

Similar to redesigns, a team of designers (and a project manager) is ideal to tackle new projects. Once the design foundation has been created, that need will shrink.

## #5 Find a designer

Some projects want to expand their team by bringing in dedicated designers. As designers are often individual contributors with a unique set of interests, experience and availability, this can often be a longer, moree gradual proces.

Simplified designer life cycle in a project:

1. Observer
	- Sees if there are opportunities to contribute
	- Decides whether contributing is “worth it”
	- Ideal if there’s an identifiable go-to person to help get started
1. New contributor
	- Has identified an area of improvement
	- Needs guidance on how to contribute (tools, processes...)
	- Should feel welcome and get satisfaction from contributing
1. Occasional contributor
	- Helps when issues arise
1. Dedicated contributor
	- Initiates design improvements
1. Core contributor
	- Helps shape overall design and design process in a project

Our goal is clarify what type of design support the project needs, create visibility for the "opening", and help onboard designers.

## #6 Adopt a design process

> As projects grow and their processes evolve, they may come to a point where they want to improve how they practice design. A designer may already be part of the project, but design contributions have been irregular and unstructured (which is fine for smaller projects).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As projects grow and their processes evolve, they may come to a point where they want to improve how they practice design and attract designer contributors. A designer may already be part of the project, but design contributions have been irregular and unstructured (which is fine for smaller projects).
```

# Bitcoin Design Community collaboration playbook

> As we get actively involved in supporting projects, we will probably encounter a few different types of situations. The goal of this document is to define common types of collaborations, to serve as starting points for new inquiries.

Reviewer 2: This intro sentence seems redundant to me.
```suggestion
```

Author: I find it important to clarify the purpose of the document. Curious what others think.

Reviewer 2: Oh my bad didn't want to delete the purpose, just the first sentence.

This is not meant to be a strict rule set. Every project is unique, and healthy collaboration requires everyone involved to be sensitive to the projects needs and goals. Our own goal is to support projects and contributors to improve their products and design practices (and not impose our ideas). 

Here are six types of design needs a project may have.

## #1 Resources & consultation

An existing project is looking for resources and expertise to improve their product's user experience (and potentially design process).

Ways the project can choose to interact with the community:

> 1. Review the guide to find a direction or solution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Review the [guide](https://bitcoin.design/guide/) to find a direction or solution
```

1. Engage in Slack conversations to share ideas and get feedback

> 1. Participate in a design review session

Reviewer 2: I think these are a bit generic steps, lets' try to give a concrete example. I like the[ analysis approach](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/discussions/101#discussioncomment-294594) Steve recommended here

Author: These steps are written from the perspective of a project that wants to reach out - what others are probably going to do. And then we can respond to that in whatever way we think is appropriate based on the project and their needs.

What methods and tools we use to respond to inquiries is a bigger topic, as we can borrow an endless number of techniques from the fields of user research and interaction design, like [all the stuff here](https://www.designkit.org/methods). Didn't want to go too deep into techniques, as different designers prefer different ones also.

Those were my thoughts when writing this. If it's not clear or useful, the let's change it.

Reviewer 2: I misunderstood who's addressing here. Now that you mentioned it is okay (from the project perspective) I understood it's from a designer perspective (our).

Steps we can take:

1. Identify goals and vision
1. Examine the current state of the project
1. Compare vision to current state
1. Break down work-to-be-done into manageable parts
	- Example:
		1. Refine brand
		1. User Interface audit
		1. Create a UI style guide
		1. Implement UI style guide (without touching interaction design)
		1. Revise individual application screens and user flows one-by-one
1. Prioritize
	- Consider whether to start with the application or the website
	- Consider level of effort for each change
	- Consider availability of contributors
	- Consider time to adopt new workflows
1. Plan collaboration
	- Good idea to start with a design review to present the project and create initial interest

Designers who want to tackle redesigns should ensure they have the availability to regularly contribute for longer periods of time. How much time is required depends on the scope. In addition to designers, having a dedicated project manager available to help with planning and communication is also helpful.

## #4 New project

> This is an opportunity to adopt a good design process from the start, beginning with researching product concepts, user research, etc. New projects likely also have other foundations to lay, so designers need to be flexible.

Reviewer 2: How can you do a user-research when a new project doesn't really have any users in most cases?

Author: Maybe target audience is a better term. Main thing is to figure out what project to build before you build it, by becoming familiar with what people's actual needs are.

Reviewer 2: Yup target audience sounds better.

> This is an opportunity to adopt a good design process from the start, beginning with researching product concepts, user research, etc. New projects likely also have other foundations to lay, so designers need to be flexible.

Author: ```suggestion
This is an opportunity to adopt a good design process from the start, beginning with researching product concepts, target audience research, etc. New projects likely also have other foundations to lay, so designers need to be flexible.
```

Similar to redesigns, a team of designers (and a project manager) is ideal to tackle new projects. Once the design foundation has been created, that need will shrink.

## #5 Find a designer

> Some projects want to expand their team by bringing in dedicated designers. As designers are often individual contributors with a unique set of interests, experience and availability, this can often be a longer, moree gradual proces.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some projects want to expand their team by bringing in dedicated designers. As designers are often individual contributors with a unique set of interests, experience and availability, this can often be a longer, more gradual process.
```

Simplified designer life cycle in a project:

1. Observer
	- Sees if there are opportunities to contribute
	- Decides whether contributing is “worth it”
	- Ideal if there’s an identifiable go-to person to help get started
1. New contributor
	- Has identified an area of improvement
	- Needs guidance on how to contribute (tools, processes...)
	- Should feel welcome and get satisfaction from contributing
1. Occasional contributor
	- Helps when issues arise
1. Dedicated contributor
	- Initiates design improvements
1. Core contributor
	- Helps shape overall design and design process in a project

> Our goal is clarify what type of design support the project needs, create visibility for the "opening", and help onboard designers.

Reviewer 3: The break down in this section is really good, I think it will give a designer a clear indication on how to best fit in depending on the project
